# Encryption-Decryption-with-Steganography
Information exchange has always been an important aspect of our lives, and with the rapid advancement of information and communication technology, communication and information exchange have become much easier and faster, but data security and privacy have become a major concern for us. Cryptography and Steganography are two popular data hiding practices that also can be combined to enhance data security. Because of recent advancements in steganalysis, one can easily reveal the existence of secreted information in carrier files. So this project aims to introduce a new method of steganography for communication between two private parties. We used a merged technique for data security that employs both cryptography and steganography techniques to enhance information security. In cryptography, we are using the RSA algorithm for the process of key generation and information encryption decryption. And in Steganography we are using Image Steganography for hiding the encrypted data. Image Steganography refers to the technique of hiding the presence of data within an image file, whereas cryptography is related to the act of transforming plain text into incomprehensible text and vice versa. Cryptography guarantees privacy whereas Steganography guarantees secrecy.  We have also used base 64 and SHA-256, which is a patented cryptographic hash function. We are hiding the encrypted data in a distinct image file to securely send over the network without any suspicion of the data being hidden. Such that any other person in the network cannot access the data present in the network. Only the sender and receiver can retrieve the message from the data.
